# ECE-425-Mobile-Robotics
This repository contains the final code for labs 1-7 and the final project in ECE 425 Mobile Robotics.  The Arduino sketches (.ino files) contain the code for each of the labs and the final project.  In addition, there are lab procedure documents (PDF files) that explain in detail the purpose, objectives, and equipment used for each of the labs and the final project.  Technical memos/reports are also provided.  Below is a list of all labs and the final project and a brief description of each:
Lab 1 - Teleoperation via Remote Control:  The purpose of this lab was to program 6 keys on a remote control that allow a robot to move forward, backward, turn left, turn right, spin left, and spin right.  These keys were then used to move the robot in a circular path, a square path, and navigate it through an obstacle course consisting of cones.
Lab 2 - Locomotion and Odometry:  The purpose of this lab was to program the robot to move to a given angle and a given goal position, as well as move in square, circular, and figure-8 paths.  The UMBARK test also had to be applied to identify Type A and Type B Odometry errors, which were compensated for by calculating a tuning factor.
Lab 3 - Random Wander and Obstacle Avoidance:  The purpose of this lab was to develop random wandering and obstacle avoidance behaviors for the robot and integrate them into a subsumption architecture, with layer zero of the architecture consisting of obstacle avoidance behaviors and layer one consisting of the random wander behavior.
Lab 4 - Wall Following via Proportional-Derviative (PD) Feedback Control:  The purpose of this lab was to implement a wall following behavior on the Arduino robot by using feedback control, specifically proportional-derivative (PD) control, which maintains a distance of 4-6 inches between the wall and the robot.  The subsumption architecture from Lab 3 was also modified to include this wall following behavior such that layer three consisted of the robot following a wall on either side and layer four consisted of the robot detecting walls on each of its sides and moving to the center of these two walls.
Lab 5 - Light Sensing:  The purpose of this lab was to use photoresistors connected to the robot to implement light sensing behavior via a reactive controller similar to that of Braitenberg’s vehicle experiments.  A subsumption architecture was also implemented, including the light sensing behavior as layer one and obstacle avoidance as layer zero.
Lab 6 - Homing and Docking Via Hybrid Control with Basic Path Planning:  The purpose of this lab was to use homing/docking with a hybrid control architecture to move the robot from a wall toward a light source, stop before hitting it, and then return it to the wall via path planning to continue wall following.  The hybrid control architecture consisted of three layers: a reactive layer for handling obstacle avoidance and wall following, a middle layer for deciding in which layer the updates are handled, and a deliberative layer for handling the current state of the robot and path planning.
Lab 7 - Path Planning:  The purpose of this lab was to use topological and metric navigation to move the mobile robot from a starting position to a goal position in a given world.  The lab was separated into three parts: 1) topological navigation, 2) metric path planning and execution, and 3) topological path planning and execution.
Final Project - Mapping and Localization:  The purpose of the final project was to successfully implement path planning, localization, and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) in an Arduino robot by utilizing a multitude of topics and concepts covered throughout the quarter.  Topics such as path planning, wall following, and object detection were utilized to accomplish these tasks. Map making and localization were successfully implemented in the robot, but SLAM was not successfully implemented due to memory constraints with the Arduino robot's microcontroller.
